Bradshaw et al, 2012, The intellectual property implications of low-cost 3D printing

Authors:
Simon Bradshaw, Center for Commercial Law Studies, University of London
Adrian Bowyer, Mechanical Engineering, Bath University
Patrick Haufe, Biological Materials, University of Applied Sciences Bremen

Bowyer is the inventor of RepRap, the Replicating Rapid Prototyper.

The document is a legal paper, published in SCRIPTed, a journal of Law,
Technology and Society.

Summary of the paper:

It examines UK legislation and case law in regard to 3D printing in 5 areas:
 - Copyright: unregistered right that protects artists and creative works
 - Design protection: exists in both registered and unregistered forms,
   protects the distinctive shape and appearance of items
 - Patents: registered right that protects novel and innovative products
 - Trade marks: serve to inform customers of the origin of goods
 - Passing off: English common law concept similar to trade marks

Their conclusion is that private 3D printer owners making items for personal
use are exempt from the vast majority of IP constraints, and commercial users
are less restricted than one might expect.

There are three principal ways to manufacture a physical object:
 - Subtractive: Cutting shapes out of a block of material
 - Additive: Adding material piecemeal to build shapes
 - Molding: Forming liquid or plastic material into shapes and harden them

These methods have been industrialized and automated, but the problem with
cutting is that the paths along which a machine must drive the cutter cannot
easily be calculated by a computer.  Only for the simplest of shapes.

3D-printing is an additive method, there are two principal methods:
 - A platform is lowered into a basin of special liquid and a laser hardens the
   liquid layer by layer
 - Fused-filament fabrication: molten plastic is extruded from a movable
   nozzle, building the object layer by layer

The main advantage of these two methods is that the machine's movement is not
restricted by the object being created. Above the currently printed layer there
is freedom to move in all directions.  This makes it easy to calculate movement
paths from blueprints.

What is the use of a 3D printer?

- Spare parts
- Craft and hobby items
- Educational use
- Unique requirements
- Fashion accessories

Intellectual Property Implications

Typical use case for a 3D printer:  manufacturer ACME, customer Bridget,
internet user Charlie.  ACME produces a range of goods, protected by various IP
rights such as trademarks, patents, etc.  Bridget owns some ACME goods, she
designs blueprints for spare or accessory parts for ACME goods, and uses a 3D
printer to print them out.  She shares the blueprints on the internet with
Charlie, who also prints and uses the parts.

Registered Design

Companies can protect the design of products: lines, contours, colors, shape,
texture, materials.  There are some constraints to such protection, and most
uses of 3D printing fall under the exceptions:
 - Component parts: parts invisible to the user cannot be protected.
 - Design dictated by function: when there is only one way to design a part, it
   cannot be protected.
 - Must Fix: when the shape is determined by the need to connect to or fit into
   or around other parts.
   
Furthermore, private non-commercial purposes do not infringe design protection.

Unregistered Design

UK-specific, applies automatically to the shape and configuration of an item,
but not its decoration.

Domestic use of 3D printing will infringe neither registered nor unregistered
design protection.

Copyright

Applies to artistic works, requires actual copying, where "substantial copying"
is sufficient to infringe.  The definition of "artistic work" is very specific
to UK law.  Definition of Paintings and 2D works are very specific, but
definition of sculpture is vague.  The biggest problem would be if a 3D printer
would print a protected picture on a surface.  Also, there are exceptions for
non-commercial use.

What about copyright of blueprints?  The copyright of a blueprint is not
infringed by making an object from it.  For example, making a Star Wars
Stormtrooper helmet from concept art was considered to be no infringement.
Copying original blueprints however is illegal.  Reverse-engineering a
blueprint from an existing object is a copyright infringement only when done
for commercial purposes.  Note: this is all due to UK case law.

Patents

Private non-commercial copying don't infringe patents.  Uploading blueprints to
the internet could be problematic though, because it enables others to infringe
patents.  It is unclear whether a blueprint alone already enables others.

Trade Marks

There is no private-use clause in UK trade mark law, but obviously personal use
is never "in the course of trade".  Commercial example: If a car repair shop
would print a replacement part to fix a customer's car, it only infringes trade
marks if the part has the car company logo on it, so the origin of the item
could be confused.  Putting a car logo on a miniature model doesn't infringe
the trade mark, because nobody would confuse a model car with a real car.

Passing Off

Similar to trade marks, but UK-only anyway.

Conclusion

Under UK jurisdiction, personal use of 3D printing does not infringe the
majority of IP rights.

This could be interesting for us:  If 3D printing becomes so widespread that
companies' business models become affected, they will react.  The reaction
would probably be similar to their reaction on music copying on the internet:
technical: DRM, and legal: lobbying for stronger legislative measures.  DRM or
somesuch would obviously be useless, because you cannot technically protect an
item from being examined or reverse engineered.

Legal measures could be: removal of private-use clauses from the various laws
that have them.  This would require change of EU directive underlying these
laws.
