2013 Joint Strategic Plan on Intellectual Property Enforcement

Author: Victoria Espinel, US Intellectual Property Enforcement Coordinator
(IPEC) since 2009.  IPEC a new position, created by the Obama administration.
She is responsible for the development and implementation of the president's
overall strategy for the enforcement of intellectual property.  Some kind of
consultant, advisor for the government.  She influences legislation, works with
government organisations like FDA, DHS or FBI, and does some kind of
reverse-lobbying, persuading private companies to voluntarily act against
piracy.


Summary of the Joint Strategic Plan (JSP)

She wrote the first JSP in 2010, this is the 2013 iteration, it summarizes
measures that have been implemented since 2010 and proposes further actions.

The first third of the document summarizes actions that have been implemented
since 2009, and has some prose blah-blah about upcoming challenges,
technological changes and stuff.

Improvements since 2010 (some examples)
 - big internet companies have agreed to voluntarily fight fake online
   pharmacies
 - internet providers have implemented the 6-strikes model
 - credit card companies withdrew payment services to counterfeit good shops
 - 7 recommendations of new legislative are implemented

There is a paragraph on 3D printing in the section about upcoming challenges,
where she describes the pros and cons of this technology.  3D printing is not
mentioned again in the rest of the document.

  3D printing has the capacity to revolutionize manufacturing and research and
  development capabilities for inventors, entrepreneurs, artists, academic
  researchers, and major global businesses. Much as the personal computer
  democratized computing power, 3D printing has the opportunity to enable
  greater market participation and innovation by reducing traditional barriers
  such as production, labor, and shipping costs. Whether it is the hobbyist in
  the garage coming up with a prototype for a new gadget to make our lives
  easier or the scientist producing life-saving medical devices, 3D printing
  brings with it a new set of opportunities for rapid and efficient trade,
  innovation, and creativity. And, just as 3D printing offers the opportunity
  to make meaningful contributions to our society, there also exists the
  opportunity for individuals who look to exploit others’ hard work to abuse
  this technology by trading in counterfeit and pirated goods, of which we must
  be cognizant and diligent in our efforts to prevent.  We believe that
  technological developments present new and improved opportunities to help
  protect

The Strategy

The overall strategy is summarized in 6 points, which are split further into a
handfull of more concrete actions.  The second third of the document describes
the actions in detail.  The 6 main points are:

 - Leading by example: the government doesn't use counterfeit products
 - Transparency and outreach: public education, propaganda
 - Ensuring efficiency and coordination
 - Enforcing rights abroad: combat foreign websites, support businesses abroad
 - Securing the supply chain: more border patrols, monitor foreign postage
 - Data driven government

Performance Numbers

Some numbers about investigations, arrests, convictions, etc and how these
numbers have increased by 70-260% since 2009.

Enforcement Activities Today

The last third of the document describes different government agencies and
their policies and specific projects. For example Project Bitter Pill of
Immigration and Customs Enforcement: seized more than 680 websites selling
counterfeit pharmaceuticals.
